Thesis WIP         




THESIS DOCUMENT
Work in Progress
WerkStadt


Sandro Beti, Nemo Brigatti 
Zürich University of the Arts
Mona Neubauer, Roman Kirschner
07.09.2022
Author Note
Second paragraph: Changes in affiliation (if any)
Third paragraph: Disclosures and Acknowledgments
sandro.beti@zhdk.ch, omen@nemobrigatti.ch
Indent the first line of each paragraph.


________________




Abstract  
(50-100 words) - general insight into the topic, project and findings


Bla Bla Bla


Keywords: Bla Bla Bla
Acknowledgments
We would like to express our gratitude to: 






________________


Table of Contents


Title (Full Word count: 3000)
	Status
	

	Page
	Abstract (50-100 words)
	wip
	

	

	Acknowledgments
	wip
	

	

	Table of Content
	wip
	

	

	Main Content: (Format of the organisation is flexible but it needs to feature:)
	

	General Introduction
	wip
	

	

	Your research field (ca 6000 words)
	

	Background and Context
	wip
	

	

	Research Questions - Hypothesis
	wip
	

	

	Methodology chosen for your investigation
	wip
	

	

	Motivation and Intended Contribution
	wip
	

	

	Chapter Overview (narrative of your content)
	wip
	

	

	Your concept (ca 10000 words)
	

	Concept and Angle
	wip
	

	

	Related Projects
	wip
	

	

	Field Research (interviews, user studies, observations.
// technology inquiry // etc)
	wip
	

	

	Findings and Next Steps
	wip
	

	

	Project Development (ca 10000 words)
	

	

	

	Experiments 
	wip
	

	

	Prototypes (incl. user tests if applicable)
	wip
	

	

	Results (incl. user tests if applicable)
	wip
	

	

	Conclusion (4000 words)
	

	

	

	Contribution  
	wip
	

	

	Future Steps
	wip
	

	

	Bibliography (no word count)
	

	

	

Abstract (50-100 words) - general insight into the topic, project and findings
Acknowledgments
Table of Contents
Main Content
Format of the organisation is flexible but it needs to feature:
General Introduction 

----- Your research field (4000 words)
Background and Context \
History city planning in Switzerland has been primarily neglected due to cultural stigma of the ideal rural and alpine life. Cities have been seen as the breed of disobedient movements and the underclass of society.
Structural aspect: Vicious cycle of suburbia and commuting
Statistical Aspect: Consumption and cost of space in Zürich
Ownership debate: Björn shit
Research Questions - Hypothesis \
Questions | Just throw them in, where are our most realistic leverage points, try to elaborate our position, hypothesis and general framing of the problems.
Methodology chosen for your investigation \
Project review summary, list methods encountered and afterwards assess their possible usefulness in our process. Link to Research questions
Location Scouting
Interview partners
Intended participants
Motivation and Intended Contribution \
Model-Principle, inspiration for others, form a small structural revolution?
Chapter Overview (narrative or organisation of your content) \
WTF is this even? read other Thesis chapters
----- Your concept (12000 words)
Concept and Angle
Related Projects
Field Research (interviews, user studies, observations. // technology inquiry // etc)
Findings and Next Steps
----- Project 
Development (12000 words)
ExperimentsPrototypes (incl. user tests if applicable)
Results (incl. user tests if applicable)
----- Conclusion (4000 words)
Contribution
Future Steps
----- Bibliography (no word count)






Main Content
General Introduction 
________________
1. Research Field
1.1 Background and Context[a]
1.1.1 We Have to Talk about Cars
Close your eyes and imagine a conjure. What does a street look like in your ideal city? Do you see cars? Shopfronts? Street vendors? What’s around you? How does it feel?
It’s very likely that none of you who have imagined a street in the ideal city had lots and lots of cars in it or even more than one lane for the cars to travel through. This has a reason. We all share an intrinsic want of how we feel comfortable within an urban environment. This includes a community, safety inclusion and wonder. [1] As we designed our public spaces or streets solely with the purpose of transit, these public spaces turn into traffic spaces [2] and do not serve those  needs. These places don’t evoke the perception of being places to stay but only places to drive through by car to get to another place. They also work as a sign of non-belonging and thus kill a space and its identity/community. We have the same problem with parking spaces. They are not only a huge waste of scarce space in a dense city (Robin Chase) but also waste the opportunities and solutions we could build for cities that are serving the mentioned needs. As we are imagining our ideal street, it’s a fact that cars have to be a part of it because everyone has a need for mobility, and there are numerous people with disabilities dependent on them. It’s safe to say though , that  streets completely lined with parking spaces are not desirable and that citizens aren’t able to participate and stay within these. As these are public spaces this is something we can change and that’s also where our biggest chance as a community lies. From self organised spontaneous events to little infrastructure such as gardens or benches, they offer a lot of possibilities. [b]The most important part is that inhabitants of streets or neighbourhoods have an active part in the creation of their public space.
1.1.2 Public Spaces as Such
There is an ongoing ownership debate with space in cities. As this is a limited medium, the design of it is also at stake. The city is often involved or accountable for these processes and provides public spaces such as parks, libraries or community centres. These meeting points are very important, because they are available to everyone, whichever income or cultural background and serve as a place to connect and discuss. There have been a lot of sociological observations, such as “Palaces of the people” [3], that shows the importance of these spaces. With an ongoing privatisation and also the notions of compact cities, unused or designable spaces disappear ever more.[4] We believe that people also have the urge to help shape their environment and have an active impact on it. That’s why public spaces in cities don’t stop at parks or squares but go further and are an essential part of the identity of certain cities. The places created with a self initiated process are what act as an identity for the citizens. The role of the people changes from just being passive users to actors within a system. It also makes these places more resilient and more adaptable to changes, because there is a local community that’s invested and designs the place in a way that benefits the people who live there. 
In the recent publication Self Made City[5] the authors also emphasise the importance of self-initiated planning and the existence of brownfields and unused spaces to give expression to imagined ideas and for community building. We also see this in Zurich with examples of the Stadionbrache, the Binz, the Rote Fabrik, the Koch-Areal or the ZW. These places serve as a cultural enrichment and help to create a community and serve as a canvas for ideas to be implemented. 
Regarding scarce space we also necessarily have to look at the aspect of sharing or the shared city. One car takes up 15 times more space than a shared car. The aspect of sharing is not only saving space regarding cars but also within every other aspect of an urban lifestyle, saving resources and empowering community building. This can go as far as building own housings and settlements within cities. [c]
1.1.3 The Early History of the Swiss City
To understand how cities have developed to the lively organisms they are today, we have to look at the historical context of urbanisation and of the politics involved in these processes. As we are working very locally in the city of Zurich, we will also look primarily at the developments in Switzerland. 
In contrast to earlier perceptions of the city, we are now characterised by a rather positive attitude towards it. Especially during the first Industrial revolution, as cities started to get very big, there was a big dissent towards cities[6]. The changes brought by the capitalistic system of mass production made these developments possible, as there was the possibility to house and work for a lot of people with minimal space. There has always been a ditch between rural and urban life and especially during these times first critics, such as Jean-Jacques Rousseau started to evolve. He lashed violently against big cities: ‘Cities are the abyss of the human species. After a few generations, races die or degenerate. They need to be refreshed, and it is always the countryside which furnishes replenishment’. 
The ideologies proposed by JJR were still a big part of the later executed planning of Jean Francois Gravier and Armin Meili. They both had a big influence in city planning in France (Gravier) and Switzerland (Meili). After the Second World War and the accompanying financial upswing in Switzerland, they both were involved in the emergence of anti-urban ideologies in space planning. What is interesting to see is that a lot of their statements didn’t necessarily have a practical aspect, but rather a political one. They saw cities as a threat to the morality of people. People who lived in cities also did not correspond to the traditional values of having a family and being a normed citizen, let alone of the established patriarchal system. There were a lot of other aspects involved too, but what’s mainly the cause of the anti-urban critique is that cities don’t support the traditional and conservative lifestyle that these two men imagined. As of their political nature they would have never seen a benefit or gain an acceptance to new ideas that emerged in these urban environments. These power dynamics have mainly led to a disempowering and neglect of urban planning and thus led to a very organic and unorganised way of urban growth. 
With the emergence of modernist ideologies, a planning hype to counteract the previous developments has started. This led to very strict and regulated forms of planning that wanted to understand the city as a whole and to include everything within this planning. A lot of ideas of building a city completely from the ground up emerged, such with Max Frisch and Lucius Burckhardt and Le Corbusier.[7] Although they have been revolutionary for the time, they lacked the potential to react within given circumstances and were mainly constructed from a very distant view but started a very important dialogue of city planning that has before been neglected. Discussions about ownership of common ground, such as the ideas of Bernoulli[d] [8] and a lot of self organised cooperatives have emerged since then and have shaped urban developments in a positive way.
When looking at a lot of the infrastructure that is being perceived as valuable parts of the city the emergence of these places had a very pragmatic background. During the last years our cities were experiencing the unique threat of a global pandemic. From a historical perspective, it is notable that the first public green areas in our cities were created for infection control reasons during the latter half of the 19th century. Overcrowding, narrow alleys, and dirty gutters caused epidemics such as cholera, typhoid, and tuberculosis to flourish in the urban, working-class neighbourhoods. They have been a very important part of public participation and community building as seen with f.e. the free lunch programs on playgrounds that date back to food-scarcity in the Second World War.[e]
1.1.4 The Consumption and Cost of Space in Zürich
Statistics / numbers on Parking Spaces / Cars in Zürich
To add some context to the claims about unproductive car infrastructure the following section outlines some of the most relevant statistics regarding parking infrastructure in the city of Zürich.
The standardised size for a parking space in Switzerland (norm from VSS) is 5 x 2.35 Metres in length which equals 11.75 square feet of parking space. According to the open data tool that the city of Zürich provides, there are about 49'000 open-air, roadside car-parking spaces in Zürich. Including the spaces in condensed parking infrastructure, such as park-houses, this number grows to about 70 '000 spaces. Therefore about 575'750 square metres (0.575 Square Kilometres) of ground are covered by Parking spaces in the city of Zürich. That is roughly the size of 80 soccer fields.[f][g][h] [i]
Zürich itself is 87.88 square kilometres big. Averaging out the density of car-parking spaces per square kilometre this equals to about 800 parking spaces per square kilometre. 
Usually parking spaces in Zürich are occupied to about 90% to 97% of the entire capacity. This results in at least 44'100 cars standing on the roadside at any given time, in close proximity to a living house. When matched with the number of households in Zürich, this results in about 1 occupied car parking space per 4 households. [9]


When Rented at the aforementioned average rental fee, these 11.75 square feet would cost about 2800.- in one year. But the city of Zürich sells parking cards for their blue zone parking spaces for 300.- a year. This card has to be used in a registered light motor vehicle to allow parking in any blue zone space in the chosen district. This could be an opportunity to claim some inexpensive space for self realisation.


When looking at the same numbers for bike parking infrastructure, the site lists about 2000 public bike parking spaces which are able to hold about 44 '000 bikes, and calculating it down to average density per square feet, we come to a number of 500 bike parking spaces per square kilometre. Why is there such a discrepancy in infrastructure between the car and the bike as a much more space- and emission-efficient vehicle of individual mobility?


According to “unparking”, a project by the MIT senseable city lab, the average car sits parked 95% of its time.[j] Assessing the IMT (individual motorised traffic) on the criteria of transport efficiency per space used, its drawbacks of increased pollution and more danger for all other traffic shareholders, could lead to the realisation that cars and their infrastructure are one of the least desirable means of transportation in a city.
Zürich is one of the most densely populated [10] cities in Switzerland, with its inhabitant number growing about 21% in the last twenty years, space is becoming a scarce resource. In the same period, the cost of housing has increased by about 22%. In 2022, the average price for apartment rental in Zürich is at 19.9.- per square metre / month.
This equals to 1470.- in monthly rental fees per and 17'640.- in yearly rental fees for a 3-room apartment. According to the rental price index, Zürich this is the second most expensive city in Switzerland.[11] Alternative housing solutions like residential communities or student housing are common in Zürich. But these solutions provide only the bare minimum of living space and leave no room for self-realisation.
So where does one find space available for use? Could we use non-productive and vacant space in cities to satisfy our need for living and social space?[k]
________________
1.1.4 Private, Public and communal Ownership.
Or “Who is managing whose possession?” / Wer verwaltet wessen Besitz?
And why cars are, in nature, exclusive.


When talking about private, communal and public ownership, many questions arise regarding the conditions of possession, control and maintenance. The implementation of use cases only adds further complication and problems of individual consideration. To gain a better understanding of their definition the following section tries to define a framework of considerations that should aid in quickly assessing objects and their status. 
In categorising a realm with one of the attributes found above, several criteria present themselves as relevant. 
I.         Assessing its ownership status, it being attributed to either a specific person, a group of people or a nation. How opaque is the structure of ownership?
II.         The accessibility issue asks for its status of admission. Who is allowed “the right of use” or “the right of way” to a realm? To what amount are use cases regulated and is there an instance of control?
III.        The issue of government agency, closely connected to the ownership structure, executive power, and feedback loops are subject to the interaction of stakeholders. Who can propose and decide on use, development and adaption?
These questions might be originating in an encounter with reality. Some inherent exclusivity in a space drew attention to it. Through imagination, a vision in how the space could be improved, or used in a more inclusive fashion, might form. But when contemplating said imagination, all the hurdles in its realisation inevitably arise. How is legitimacy for action or the call to action gained? When does this individual concern become a common matter?  The answer might be hidden in the term «common». From several individuals with shared interest, a community might form that tries to realise their goal through activism. This might include advertising the Action The creation and distribution of value for a broader community is an act of empowerment that contains its own legitimation.
Diving deeper into the notion of the «public realm» we can observe a shift in its understanding. In its semantic origins, the public realm was understood as the ground for the political life of a citizen. Its contrary, the private realm was designated space for the “existential” life, where basic needs were to be handled and control and influence was not practised based on speech and thought, but based on necessity and hierarchy. It was not as much about the question of ownership but more about the questions of rule and governing principles. 
Locating the two realms in the example of individual mobility, we are able to outline the conflict that has emerged between them. Infrastructure, as a communal good, is funded through the governmental institution. Its function is always founded in something we state as “public need”. But when looking at contemporary jurisprudence, the car is seen as a private entity. A car, in its idea, is serving the individual need for mobility. Transporting to work, goods of provision, and to activities of self-fulfilment. These purposes, although sometimes intertwined with the public sphere, can be categorised as private in their nature.[l]
 
When comparing the statistics of motorised individual mobility with others (as outlined in the former chapter), we get a grasp of its numerical absurdity. Is not, in every other system we developed, efficiency the most important evaluation metric? The ability to take part in modes of individual motorised transport is dependent on financial means and comes with a huge ecological and spatial footprint. Car infrastructure, through its inherent danger and consumption of vast spaces is, in essence exclusive for all other shareholders of mobility.






________________
1.2 Research Questions - Hypothesis
Regarding our Research questions, it’s very important to set a scope of what is important to us and where we can have the biggest impact. City planning is a very complex topic and there are a lot of stakeholders involved. To realise a project you have to overcome a lot of administrative hurdles. These processes always take a lot of time and it’s also the stage in which most projects already die. The “urban equipe collective” published a book regarding exactly these questions and how to act within the legal and administrative frame. As we come from a design background it’s very important for us to find out how we can gain a resonance from the people and how to get quick and qualitative feedback to iterate in further steps. (How can we include people and gain participants to iterate our interventions?)
We also think that this is a chance for us as designers to contribute to this very relevant topic. As we are neither architects nor policy makers we have the opportunity to work in a very spontaneous and local way. There a lot of projects we could find on how designers can contribute to the surprising aspect of a city. What we really want to investigate is how design can contribute to a more self-initiated and democratic way of behaving within a city. Can we achieve this with speculative work or maybe with very local and pragmatic projects that work as an inspiration for other self-initiated projects? 
A further aspect of public interventions is how they are getting perceived. There is a lot of stigma against classic occupations of buildings and the aesthetics involved play a big role. That’s why we think it’s also very important to evaluate people's reactions to different designs and aesthetics. Is a refined design necessarily better? How are improvised interventions accepted? Is it better to stay with the intervention or just leave it alone? How do people identify with a place according to the aesthetics and the co-creation provided?
When it comes to designing with and for a community, inclusion is also a big part. We are sure that projects have a longer life-span if people are getting involved in the process and also can have an active creation or a passive decision part within them. However these processes always take time and more opinions lead to a more diverse project but also to more time spending in discussions. As we are evolving our bachelor thesis we also want to find out how and where we can play a role. Should we work with just one community and neighbourhood and develop a very refined but local project? Or should we include all different parts of the city and thus more diverse target groups, but stay in a more spontaneous self-initiated concept? Another aspect we also want to look at is how participatory design processes can also happen within a digital space.
Because we do not only want to provide different proposals but also the tools to start projects in the same manner, we would like to look at the motivation of people to act within their cities. Is there a willingness to act in the public space but the administrative hurdles are too big? Is there only a need for participation and having a say? These questions are some of the most important to us because the community determines the success of such a project.
1.3 Methodology chosen for your Investigation[m]
Transition from share- and stakeholders (from who owns what)  to the notion of interaction design (discipline as mediator for connections) and its methods seen as applicable and relevant to our vision and improvements in the urban community.


The discussed problems about enacting change in public spaces leaves us wondering about possible strategies and solutions for the outlined issues. In a field where political, infrastructural and social interests collide, a mediator is needed. City planners, as they are named, will plan some change, politicians are concerned with budget and their agendas, civil engineers usually work in the framework of public contracting work. All that has its purpose to control and regulate the quality, need, functionality and budget of public infrastructure, but does not provide a framework for communal interventions. They lack the possibilities of creative, spontaneous and decentralised creation of urban infrastructure.
We propose the methodic toolkit of Interaction Design as the ideal utility to act. In the complex, interactive systems of cities, a multidisciplinary approach will lead to services with a broader User base, therefore more legitimacy and inclusion.
This said we have a lot of different tools at our disposal. These range from promenadology to quick prototyping. In the early stages of our thesis, we will mainly try to lay a focus on qualitative research. Already having a lot of statistics and papers in our research basket, we aim to have several interviews with people who are specialised and work in the field of space planning. Furthermore it’s important for us to also get a perspective of citizens. This can be either done with cultural probes or also with interviews and collaborative workshops. 
Participation and Inclusion is a big part of urban developments and also contributes to the success of a project. Regarding the Co-Creation or Co-Designing with involved parties it’s very important to set a goal of what we want to establish and what our goal is within this collaborative process. We also found that people are often very sceptical when it comes to the creation of public spaces, because they feel like, as it’s also their space, that decisions have been made without their consent. To tackle these challenges we want to work with prototypes that either generate an added value or that propose a story that then can be discussed[12]. To move away from abstract and very theory-based ideas we also hope to incorporate this participation context within an ongoing discussion.






1.3.1 Game Methodology
Games are an excellent tool to research different connections and dynamics within a system. As there is a common goal to be defined, there are also certain rules that apply to everyone. Furthermore specific skills and limitations can be thought through with different characters. Creating this canvas we hope to also identify certain leverage points within the urban system. As there are so many parties involved it’s very hard to gain a holistic view and to understand and include all the actors within an urban environment. With this approach we hope, on one hand, to manifest the data we collected though the aforementioned methods, and on the other hand, to have a discussion platform we can build upon and understand the dynamics of parking spaces. As cited in „Play the City“, consider the complexity and potential variations in a game of chess. Despite its simple, nixed, and easy-to-comprehend rules, it is almost impossible to predict the moves of two opponents after three or four steps, and all of the intricate and responsive solutions generated during the play process. 
Following the guidelines of Play the City[13], we want to create a game that enables different parties to shape a process and have an active part within the emergence of a project. This includes several steps and preparations: 


1. Define the game challenge: In our case this would be the goal to create streets and spaces that are car free and offer the possibility to act within this newly resulted public space. To limit ourselves we set the Blue Zones in the city of Zurich as our playground.


2. Engage your stakeholder network: This includes people that commute by car or own a car. People that only commute by bike and use public transport systems. Furthermore there are the city planners, the neighbourhood councils, small entrepreneurs and many more that can be added or subtracted to the game. We also hope to use this step to create personas and to define the different motives of involved citizens.


3. Identify Relevant Data: Regarding the data we will have to look at two different types of data. On one hand we will incorporate the „hard“ data such as location, traffic, certain statistics that prove our game dynamic and also what rules and networks already exist. Furthermore we have the „soft“ data, such as philosophical thoughts about space but also points that we see as beneficial factors for living in the city as before mentioned in the background chapter.


4. Identify Available Resources: The resources generally influence the skills or possibilities the players have to act within the game. This would include several legal restrictions but also f.e. the possibility to own a „Blue-Zone Card“. Furthermore the financial resources should also be added into the play and administrative processes are also being taken into account. 


5. Design Game Rules and Conditions: The Game Rules include the individual and collective rules. The individual rules will differ as do the skills. Citizens may have the possibility to organise cultural events and the city-players can then approve these proposals. When creating these rules we will take the Urban-Equipe handbook as a guideline.
The collective rules will apply to everyone involved and will include: sequence, respect and priority.


6. Build the Game Interface: When building the Game Interface it’s again very important to define what kind of outcome we want to generate. As we don’t have a lot of time within the Thesis and we aim for fast results. This would include an easy interface that’s quickly understandable and thus helps us gain fast feedback from a lot of different people. It should also be an interface that can be accessible for everyone; either in the digital or the public space.


7. Play and Record Game Sessions: When testing out the game we would like to use it as a proposal and discussion platform for people in a public space but also to have a manifestation of our ideas and having a platform that can be dynamically changed. We would also like to organise game sessions that can include different experts within the beginning of the project. 


The game will first be played in a Dungeons & Dragons RPG style. This can also be explored with people who aren’t specialised within the field of urban development. With the provided role cards the different motives and dynamics can then be explored. As the game works as a model for the real scenario, ideas that emerge can then quickly be tested out in the real world, which insights can then be included in the further iterations of the game.












________________


1.4 Motivation and intended contribution
When using “our” city, we often get alienated by its nature, depending on how we move, we feel excluded from vast spaces of its area, and many places, although accessible, seem dead and lacking any inviting character. Our private space is scarce and expensive, while much of the city's area lies idle, scarcely used and contradicting reasonable measures of utility.  Should not we, as interaction designers, try to improve that situation? However marginal the contribution might seem? Do something where our skills seem to find their perfect application scenario? We want to create systems for better interaction with each other and with the “public infrastructure”. We want to motivate others to participate and innovate by themselves. We want to “hack” the bureaucratic and prohibitive system to create some controversy but more importantly, some value.


As outlined in our research, many projects that intervene in the public sphere face difficulties on political, infrastructural and social level. But what many of them achieve is a small step towards more decentralised and inclusive urban development. Almost all of them document their gained knowledge and provide it as a resource and possible inspiration for other people. Through that they create a continuously growing toolset of communal empowerment in urban interventions. In our eyes, this decentralised activism has the potential to marginally improve life quality in a city. By going through the process of activism, we want to create a “model-principle” intervention. Its goal is not to throw over the old system, but to serve as a model and inspiration for reflection on the status quo and providing possible points of departure for other empowerment projects in Urban intervention.












________________
1.4 Chapter overview (narrative or organisation of your content)












































2. Concept[n]
2.1 Concept and Angle
THE ANGLE IS 42° 
Space is very scarce in Zurich. Unused areas and brownfields are disappearing ever more and there is hardly a place that hasn’t been planned out yet. These spaces are however a very important part of urban development and neighbourhood identity. Having a space where one can get active, has the possibilities and mindset to change and initiate is a space where ideas can thrive and where needs can be expressed. We hope to incorporate these factors in a project that isn’t based on a specific locality, but to bring this mindset to the street, or more specific to parking spaces. With lots and lots of parking spaces being removed and having no actual supplement, we also think of these spaces as brownfields and they can be found everywhere in Zurich. This led us to the angle of changing streets and neighbourhoods through temporary conversion of parking spaces with a mobile architecture or spontaneous low-fidelity interventions.
The core of our concept lies in a simple, yet not easily answerable question: What if residents could plan and co-decide the changes that are undergoing on and within their streets?[o] Up until now the decisions that have been made regarding public spaces are mainly done from one perspective; the civil engineering office point of view. This is surely not a completely bad thing but it poses a very important question that is: Why do we manage public space, that is as its name suggests, public from a single and very strict perspective? Couldn’t we create a more personal, lively and resilient structure if different views would be taken into consideration? Where people are not only living, but being active within a public sphere. This is where we hope to have an effect — to change spaces that are designated to traffic and individual mobility to spaces that are designated to humans. 
2.1.1 Shift of perspectives
During the first phase of our project we try to disrupt the dynamics and perceptions we have of a classic street. Without much doubt we take it for granted that streets should primarily be centred around cars and parking spaces and what’s maybe even more important, that we are not in a place to use and change this semi-public space for other purposes. If we look at the percentage and history of street usage we can observe that cars shouldn’t be preferred within that setting. Furthermore the street is a public space and by blocking that street with our individual goods, that is the car, we take designated public space and use it for our own individual needs. This also changes the way of how we perceive this street. A very impersonal and traffic-centred space isn’t a place we would like to stay or where we feel a certain hint of personality or ownership within the neighbourhood.  All this said, we decided that it is best to start off our project by organising small actions and parking spaces and claim that space for other purposes that can also benefit a neighbourhood. We started with a small coffee where one can exchange their ideas to reshape parking spaces for a coffee of their choice. This creates a meeting point and has an active benefit for a street. We also started many discussions with inhabitants about the usage of public space and our project. With this approach we can get quick public feedback and are also able to connect with people that live within that neighbourhood. As an additional benefit it is also a good exercise for explaining and communicating our project to an outside audience.
2.1.2 Local vs Urban
During the preparations of our concept we were being confronted with the question of the scope we want to work within the city of zurich. We knew that our project would have a bigger and more enduring effect if we work locally as we are able to engage with people on a more regular basis. With a city that is so diverse though, we also wanted to get a feeling of how our approach can work within different settings and neighbourhoods. After our first actions we realised that wherever we work, we have to think in a hyperlocal way. Having streets that are directly in front of the involved actors’ house, we sensed that this sense of ownership is an important key to having motivated and involved people. Even public squares and schools aren’t considered as personal space and thus the “right” to have an active part within shaping this space is very little. This said we also realised that it can be helpful to work in a neighbourhood where we are also involved. Doing the actions near the place we live had a better effect in a way that there was more trust, relatability and also more local incidents and objectives to talk about. This led us to a concept that should be reproducible with very little knowledge and low effort. This way we achieve a change in every neighbourhood with different local actors involved.
Another problem we have encountered is how to manage the involvement of people and municipalities. Having a very high population density, the question of democracy and importance is quite difficult to answer. If the civil engineering office plans a big bike route through the street, do the residents get to decide if they are in agreement or not? Whilst talking about these organisational issues we have observed that a lot of the processes have a big similarity to game dynamics. Each actor has different roles and skills and thus also different goods, such as financial resources, media coverage or social networks to offer and to negotiate with. We imagine ourselves as designers that can tweak the dynamics and make different adjustments to have an ongoing dynamic that works for everybody[p][q]
2.1.3 Our role as designers[r]
When working closely with a group of people, where we also take inputs and ideas from the outside it is always important to be clear about one’s role during the project. While having a lot of joy with organising these little neighbourhood meet-ups we stated for ourselves that we want to provide a platform for people to exchange and express themselves,[s][t] but also that our task is not only to mediate between the different actors involved[u]. We have an active part in presenting solutions and presenting insights through our research that enables residents to get involved within this movement without having to test everything out and get visible. We will mainly work on a manual of ways to get active and we will look at the ideas that are being provided as a suggestion that can be implemented and assessed as people’s needs. Having the slow processes in mind, that interacting with multiple actors involved, bring we would like to speak through actions and prototypes rather than having a lot of meetings that can then bring forth the best solution. In the next step it is also very important to us that our process and our methods are as transparent as possible. With having a website[v] that documents each of our steps we hope to enable and inspire other people to reproduce our approach. We also want to provide a manual that can demonstrate how one can get active and be involved within the reshaping process. As Interaction Designers our competence is heavily based on designing processes and this way we also hope to make an impact in a way that the communication between the civil engineering office and the inhabitants is being as good as possible.[w] We imagine our prototypes and communication methods as active “things” to be talked about from both sides, putting us into the spotlight to have a ground for discussion.
?? Alte kei ahnig 
2.1.4 Goals
Our goal is heavily based on our prototypes we provide. Having a “researching through prototyping” mindset we strive to get a sense of what’s possible in a realistic manner. We realised that it is way easier to discuss a proposal or an idea rather than an abstract theory of traffic dynamics. With this approach we are able to lower the perception of how much knowledge one must have to be involved in this process. Even a small action, such as colouring a parking space with drawing chalk, can serve as an expression of a need for more personality and aesthetic diversity within a street. Our goal is to empower people in a manner of speaking through actions that on one hand have a benefit for the street and the neighbourhood as it allows people to connect and dwell, but also to have a political component that is being expressed in a public manner.  In our research we have different political bullet points we distilled as “problematic” that we would like to address. When talking about the scarcity of space we want to show how absurd the waste of space is by having all streets parked with cars and also how much relevance is given to the ability of having to park a car from a monetary aspect as this possibility is extremely cheap. We are aware that we are not gonna get rid of cars within a city but there are better solutions in place such as underground car parks or car sharing. The city has realised that this amount of parking spaces is clearly not necessary and thus a lot of them are being removed. Following this movement we would like to provide a direct solution to how this space can be used and substituted. 
Talk more about how different actors and politics are involved, how individual mobility is being prioritised and how there is no immediate solution to how the removed parking spaces get substituted.[x]
Within the framework of the many different actions and the possibilities they offered, we were repeatedly confronted with the question of longevity and manifestation. In many situations we have noticed that the motivation and willingness to create ideas is there on the part of the residents. However, since we also want to have an impact after the action, it is also our goal to develop a digital documentation tool which, together with a physical legacy (e.g. a plaque with a QR code), functions as a portrait and solution library and can thus also offer added value in the longer term. Furthermore, it is our goal to compile a primer that documents the most important clues for actions on the street and presents many different ideas that can be carried out by oneself, with varying degrees of effort, and can thus be easily documented.
Finally, our aim is that the actions should always have a playful aspect, that people should also feel like carrying out the action and that this should not turn from a free weekend day into a working day.
In the beginning of our project we defined different scopes we want to touch. Our first scope would be organise actions that we can do on free parking spaces. These actions can be very spontaneous and can work without a lot of bureaucratic preparation. We strive to test out different time formats like short interventions such as the “idea coffee shop” or longer ones such as the “Before I die I want to” -project. In a next step we hope to have a dialogue with the residents and emphasise the planning and designing aspect of the projected street. Within this process we want to focus on the process and test out different ideation and planning techniques such as the playable street and different models to prototype in a lively way. After having modelled a street that would benefit the residents we hope to develop a concrete vision and propose an actual solution that could be tested out during a certain period of time. With the help of “Kunst im öffentlichen Raum” and a communication with the “Tiefbauamt Zürich” we would like to actually remodel the targeted street for a certain amount of time and develop certain documentation and feedback methods to iterate and conclude on the decisions and projects we did.[y] In a last step we hope to turn these findings into a guideline of how streets could be remodelled when taking residents into consideration and how these can be used in later projects.[z]




2.2 Related Projects
When talking about these related projects we think it’s very important to state how self-initiated or municipal the process has been designed. Having a lot of official and heavily funded projects in cities we would also like to look at “self made” projects from cooperatives in Berlin or different brownlands in Zurich. Whilst analysing the projects we always had different questions in mind that we tried to answer. Some of the most important questions were: What has been done before? Where did the drive in the project come from? How active has everybody been involved? What long-term success has been achieved? These different criterias in mind we realised that there is a very big span on the duration of the planning processes and also the impact the different projects have had. An interesting thing to point out though is that projects that have been addressed in a financially cooperative way had the most long term effect and were resistant to a lot of changes that gentrification and urban developments have brought up.
2.2.1 Brings uf d Strass
“Brings uf d Strass” is a project that was initiated by the civil engineering office in the city of Zurich. In a cooperation with Denkstatt Sarl 3 and local residents, several streets in Zurich have been closed down for car traffic during summer vacation and furnished with possibilities to play and dwell on them. 
2.2.2 Self Made City
The publication “Self Made City” is highlighting different projects and cooperatives in Berlin. What was interesting to observe is that a lot of cooperatives have started to emerge from the squatter scene that were living in abandoned buildings after the “Mauerfall”. These unused spaces have immediately started to form a community that was dependent on affordable housing and that has later in cooperation with the city founded cooperatives that still make up a large part of some neighbourhoods in berlin. 
What we really like about this story is that if there’s space that has to be talked about and that in a sense belongs to everybody, communities can form and that there’s a more personal and resilient process going on. Even if it sounds capitalistic it’s also always important to talk about ownership and the longevity that this factor can have. This means that people are much more likely to get active and are being involved if they know that they are being responsible and can also decide for a designated area


2.2.3 Stadionbrache
The Stadionbrache… Nemooooooooo? 
2.2.4 BeeHome


Home is where the heart is.
2.2.5 WikiHouse
The WikiHouse is a project where different building blocks can be composed into a small liveable house that enables it to be stable, tested and easily buildable. The notion of offering tools not products and having an open source mentality really appeals to us because it always has an empowering factor too. In a way of DIY Democracy the skills one learns from building and being involved into the process of a small infrastructure makes an installation or an infrastructure more resilient to changes. Because one understands the process of building it, repairing becomes easy. This leads to less resources being wasted and a longer life span. On the other hand it is also interesting how identity can be expressed even with something that has been composed by oneself. Having an active part in painting or the goal of usage makes the responsibility issues of common goods less worse. Another design principle this project embraces is the one of decentralised manufacturing and management. This leads to less transportation ways and a better distribution of both power and manufacturing. We also hope to have this aspect in our project and we will have to look more into the crafting tools that are necessary to have the possibility to build something like that.
2.2.6 Decidim
Decidim is a tool for democratic processes and is heavily used in Barcelona as in other cities. The goal is to let as many people be a part of public decisions as possible and thus make every process more democratic. It is an easy to use tool and is a good example how digital applications can help make decisions in a bigger community. Trying out mini projects with decidim can also help gain a feeling of what‘s needed and wanted in a community.
2.2.7 Quartieridee Wipkingen
The Quartieridee Wipkingen is a project that has been situated in Zurich in the district of Wipkingen. The project was realised in 2020/2021 and was a collaboration between the urban equipe the Quartierverein Wipkingen and the city of Zurich. The idea was to have a participative budget to realise ideas that have been submitted by residents. After the submitting phase each resident could vote on their favourite ideas on a digital platform. It was the first attempt on realising a participative budget in Zurich and the main goal was to find out how valuable the submitted ideas are but also which methods work best to include as many people as possible. What is interesting about the project is, that it wasn’t necessarily all about the budget that is at stake but more how one can discuss ideas in a neighbourhood and how these are gaining acceptance. The main objective we observed when talking with the urban equipe and when reading the reports was that there was a very big work input from the side of the project initiators and that the processes behind submitting and voting to then later being realised took a very long time. Another thing we observed was that it was very important to have an offline presence in the neighbourhood and that people could exchange and discuss because there was a meeting point created. The long term effect is something we couldn’t really measure within this project. As also described during our research, meeting points that include activities such as skateparks, Pétanque fields or book coffees really help to get an exchange and are way better to connect than simple parks or infrastructure. The infrastructure that has been provided though may not always act as a long term social place. Another aspect we liked though was how the discussions revolved mainly around ideas and simply by having an idea it enabled people to have a common goal that can maybe also be achieved without the funding.
2.2.8 Bikeable


Die Strass in Holland ohni Parkplätz
Mour?

MORE MOBILE PROJECTS?
________________


2.3 Field Research
With our working strategy consisting mainly of “researching through prototyping”, our concept is subject to iteration, influenced by needs and learnings that we discover through our journey.
By prototyping together with actors in the field of street development, such as The “Tiefbauamt” as official institution, the “Urban Equipe” as Activists for self-empowered Initiatives, and residents as main users, we aim to gain practical knowledge on their decision-making, processes and visions. As described in our current concept, we have several questions that need to be investigated through further prototyping. The most pressing question probably was: Is there a need for intervention? / Do people reaffirm or relate to the issues we want to tackle with our project?
2.3.1 Concept Validation[aa]
To answer that question, we developed a prototype to gather opinions from people on the street. Embedded into our first prototype of the “Idea Café” was a framework that aimed at discussing and validating our concept through confrontation with people of diverse age, origin, life circumstances and modes of mobility. Passing people were offered one coffee in exchange for one idea of possible change for the street we were located in. Through these ideas, we aimed to create a discourse with each other. Explaining this exchange of goods always led to the same question: “But what do we pay with?” And: “Really, just an idea? But for what exactly?” As soon as they had our idea-card in their hands, the participants began to realise that ideation and this kind of “creativity on demand” is not as easy of a currency as imagined at first hand. We, on the other hand, did not yet have a “streamlined” answer to their last question. “Ideas for a more liveable street”, “Imagine a street without cars, what would you do?”, “Ideas for a more public street” were a few of our answers. The usual dialogue unfolded around our vision for a more liveable street with less space for car parking and more space to meet. We tried to not discuss the banning and / or necessity for cars, instead trying to bring people to contemplate a “what if-scenario”, where the logistical problem of parking spaces for cars has been solved in another way than to occupy half our streets.
One phenomena we quickly discovered was the “hyper-locality” of the Ideas. They were all strongly connected to the street our “Kafi” was situated at. Ranging from little proposed interventions to improve safety for pedestrians, to a more green street with more plants and less “sealed surfaces”. In some instances, the ideas reflected the starting point of our thought process — Occupying space that was strictly destined for cars with self-empowered interventions for more personal space. Having a like-for-like character, that contrasts the unproductive occupation with a productive occupation for more living room. The need for a truly public space, as one with the affordance to dwell and therefore participate in a public realm was voiced. Plants, comfortable seating, shielding from traffic and cars, a fountain and generally a more “public” character were listed as the most essential elements to afford the imagined roadside dwelling space.
Inevitably, the discussion of ideas gravitated to the underlying issue of car politics in cities. During our two iterations we have yet to encounter a radical car owner that has no other concern than the parking of his vehicle, but some critical arguments were brought up. These Critical voices argued that the need for cars is and always will be there. Be it for reasons of convenience such as transport in bad weather, transporting personal goods, insufficient public transport offerings, or for reasons of necessity, such as limited mobility or transport of commercial goods. “You can't just take away people's cars, they are just too comfortable, and everybody is used to them” was one concern. Also outlined was the effect of parking-induced traffic, that emerges from people searching for parking spaces when the offered spaces are not sufficient.
The opponent of said opinion was found in a person stating that nobody in a city needs a car. As the Public Transport in Zürich is on such a high level of development, the solution would be to make car traffic in a city as unattractive as possible, through measures in traffic planning and taxing car use with more expensive parking spaces and road taxes.
A common ground was the agreement with our vision / assumption that streets could serve a more productive use as a true Public space instead of being occupied by unproductive infrastructure.
2.3.2 Collecting Data ( from residents and passers)
In the first iteration of the “Park-Kafi” (more detailed description in the prototype chapter), we used the Idea-Card 1 (fig 777) to document the participants' ideas for action on the street. We gave these cards a physical form to afford some value to the ideas that the participants exchanged for the coffee. The card asked specifically for the description of an imagined “Re-utilisation” for an existing parking space, be it by writing or sketching. They worked great for documenting the ideas, but seemed to intimidate some people, as writing and sketching about ideas did not feel as easy for them. After assessing the content and systematic of these idea cards, we had several learnings for the next iteration. Along with the aforementioned fixation on sole ideas being decremental in initialising a time-independent discussion, the fixation of the ideas on the parking space itself seemed restricting, as the discussions usually began to include the whole street.
For the second iteration of the “Park-Kafi”, We kept the concept of our Idea-card, but widened the scope to include more surroundings. Furthermore, we wanted to expand the discussion taking place with giving people the ability to react to other peoples ideas, and maybe initiate thinking with Questions (see fig 777). In hindsight, the questions asked were too suggestive, and would have profited from inviting more nuanced opinions. 
2.3.3 Learning from existing Projects
When looking at existing projects in the realm of reshaping streets, many of the co-design processes were documented poorly. This was especially the case with projects in cooperation or initiation by institutions. We tried to contact the “Tiefbauamt Stadt Zürich” to ask them questions that we were not able to answer by reading through their Website, but their answer simply was that they were not willing to allocate resources for ba-thesis inquiries. After more searching, we were able to find the contact details of a person in charge of the “Brings ufd Strass” Project. We sent them a catalogue of questions regarding the project, and to our surprise, we got an extensive answer to all of them.
How and according to what criteria are sites selected?
Possible streets for organising the event are selected based on proposals from the residents. The proposed locations must meet the necessary traffic and urban planning requirements, which are refined and adapted based on the experience gained. E.g. low traffic volume, no rescue axis or public transport axis, no construction sites during implementation.
How are ideas for the provided infrastructure collected?
In its first iterations a planning office proposed a furniture concept. In the following years, a design concept was for the streets was developed in the course of various participatory events and based on feedback from the neighbourhood residents. The furnishing strongly depends on the location, which was also supplemented by some residents initiative.
What data was collected? How was it collected / evaluated?
During the temporary redesign, spatial observations as well as interviews with users were conducted. These show which are the user group, which activities are most frequent and when the street was most used. Polling devices were also placed on the perimeter. Here it is asked whether the users like the redesign or whether they would like to see it repeated. This data will be automatically analysed.
How does the participation process look like? Are there future iterations planned?
Since 2022, there has been a dialogue with the dialogue group (residents, the neighborhood and trade association) of the Ankerstrasse area for an implementation of "Brings uf d'Strass!".
The inclusion of the neighborhood population will be further promoted. The dialogue group will be expanded and the implementation will be concretized in cooperation with the residents.
Along with their answers, we got an invitation to participate in the ongoing co-design process for further iterations.


2.4 Findings and Next Steps:
This section aims to answer some questions and outline our Heading and Vision for our proceedings. 
Within our research and also our user studies we realised that a lot of the projects that have been realised have been approached from a very big scope. Often there were whole neighbourhoods being rebuilt and trafficways have been directed. Even when looking at neighbourhood specific projects we think that the actions that have been taken were often too big to understand. The topics that were discussed were often on a very abstract level and have been thought of as finished projects once they were being built. We realised that discussions were always best, when we started with a specific idea that people could imagine. Later the discussions often revolved around different “bigger” topics such as traffic dynamics and ownership debates of the street. To dive into this discussion directly however has never really worked. With always providing an action whilst intervening in the streets this helps us to also always generate an idea and a “thing” to talk about. 
A lot of projects that we found interesting have been built in a collaborative way. The collaboration though only happened in the first phase of the projects, where the topic of what to build has been discussed. This led to a different building process than one that was purely handled by the civil engineering office. When finished it lacked the possibility for residents to interact and change the space. This led to an impersonal space that was provided by the city and was not thought of as personal or communal space. Generally speaking we think that identity and accountability are big factors regarding resilient neighbourhoods. We often see this in cooperatives where decision making and building are going hand in hand. The way that a lot of the people see streets today however are from a very numb and inactive way. This is also caused by the fact that streets are designated to traffic and not humans. We hope to contribute to this discussion by looking more on the aspect of how public spaces can be changed in a self-initiated way. This way we hope to not only make a neighbourhood more resilient but also to connect people in a manner that is of interest for everyone. We also realised that people have a different feeling of ownership when it comes to the space that is right in front of their house. This active involvement is something we also hope to incorporate in later prototypes.


The idea revolves around a meeting space and its necessary Infrastructure. When looking at existing GZs, they are always bound to knowledge and connection to some people that are already involved in the group. Their location in conventional housing, gives them a non-inviting appearance, and all Action connected to them will be associated with and depending on their Identity.
When looking at existing projects to reshape streets, they lack the possibility of spontaneous interaction and creation, because their character is, through the long and bureaucratic planning and realisation process, fixed and inflexible. The more they are realised, the more static they become. They do not inspire participation in creation and empowered action.
We aim to solve these problems by providing a toolkit as a platform for flexible, independent and motivating action on the street. Through providing expandable shelter, this toolkit allows for weather-independent dwelling. By providing flexible furniture and infrastructure it enables the temporary reuse of the road surface for communal activities. To initialise open use and create a community around the “toolbox” start the project with several different events on regular bases that aim to connect people from the neighbourhood and inspire them to participate with their own ideas for events.
What do we prototype next? / next steps? There are three fields to prototype / evaluate: 

The scope of Invitation / Community-building / Events How do the events / community building work? How can we initialise and motivate a community around events? 
Prototype with events to bring together people, motivate them to share their skills / organise their own events. How do we invite people? Velowerkstatt? Lisme? Fermentation X future foods? Look at 100 ideas again 

The Principles of the Toolbox / Integration / Sheltering the action How mobile is it? Does it expand? What about shelter? How is the infrastructure managed or cared for? What do the building / identity aesthetics look like? How is it communicating the invitation? Prototype moving vs static infrastructure. 
The components / tools contained in the toolbox. How flexible / valuable / expandable are they? What components are needed / wished for? How can discussions / ideas be documented / discussed in a time-independent fashion? Are we the only ones to open and use the toolbox?
3. Project Development
How can we convey the feeling of belonging, of having a right in the space and the security of being active ourselves? Throughout the project we were aware that many of our questions could only be tried out in the field. The creation of a concept, the value of detail and the direct feedback from different participants were the most valuable experiences that contributed to the development. We realised that public spaces are very sensitive ecosystems. Small factors often determine the success or failure of an action. Because basically, public space is a place that is highly regulated. In the Swiss system, we are not used to finding non-institutionalised structures and even less so in places like car parks, which are generally understood to have been designated for a purpose. Our main task was to transform the emerging scepticism that accompanies unexpected events into curiosity. 
As already mentioned, any manifestation of infrastructure in public space is characterised by a political sphere. We, i.e. politicians and the civil engineering office, make decisions that influence the entire urban design world. This public discussion about more or less bicycle routes, the expansion of more green spaces and the abstract talk in the media is often beyond our imagination and leaves us no option to act. Our ambition has been to make policy with things, to start discussions with direct proposals and to work in a hyper-local way. This contributes to our vision not only to talk about the design of our streets, but also to show the possibility of taking action ourselves and to achieve a mini-democracy through the shared responsibility of a space.
3.1 Experiments
3.1.1 Walks
The first part of being active started with us "being in space". On various walks we examined our surroundings in the sense of Lucius' Burckhardts' Spaziergangswissenschaften. In the process, we increasingly noticed the discrepancy between the different neighbourhoods. With the thought in mind that there is a fundamental lack of space in Zurich and that neighbourhood streets are often blocked up with parking spaces, we could hardly observe this in neighbourhoods with a very distinguished background. The greening of various gardens, for example on the Zürichberg or in Hottingen, led to neighbourhood streets that provide a lot of shade and, through the design of each garden, also acquire a personality that invites people to take a walk. The basic problem is that only a privileged upper class can enjoy enough design space. The clear allocation of the respective plot also leads to the fact that hardly any exchange takes place and thus hardly any meeting places can be found. Places to linger or live on the street were hardly to be found, as everyone already had enough space in their own garden. 
As we continued our tour of Zurich, we came more and more into commercial spaces such as the Sechseläutenplatz or Kreis 1 in general. These spaces were very busy, but had hardly any personal components, as the entire infrastructure was managed by the city and there were hardly any living spaces. During further walks through Niederdorf and also in Wipkingen, we often asked ourselves, where are the traces of people who live here? We found hardly any, no signs, no self-initiated infrastructures or even self-planted green spaces. One reason we observed was that many houses had courtyards that were not accessible and therefore not visible, but also that the street as a traffic element does not invite people to linger, since it stands for traffic, i.e. for the temporary stay as a transit zone to get to another place. Basically, the more traffic elements a space contains, the fewer people will linger there. This can also be observed in a square like the Hardplatz, which is located in the middle of various traffic axes.
In another neighbourhood, Wiedikon, we also noticed how many streets were blocked. It was exciting to observe the concentration of meeting places on individual squares. The streets between Hardplatz and Lochergut are hardly used and also blocked, but Bullinger-, Ida- or Bruppacherplatz were full of life and people every day. One reason for this is that there is hardly any traffic here and many cafés also offer outdoor seating, but another is that the density of single-family homes is extremely low. The many apartment buildings and often too small flats lead to much more interaction on the street and also to its use. Another discrepancy we saw in the streets was mainly in cooperative housing estates. Rotachstrasse, for example, is in our opinion a prime example of neighbourhood design. The many green spaces, the little traffic and the component that residents of a cooperative flat stay on site much longer and also a networking within the cooperative takes place, leads to more personal components, such as garden beds or signs painted by children. 
Finally, in this exploration, we did not find a single street in Zurich that was car-free or residents-only. The blue zones were all occupied, except for the more upscale neighbourhoods, and where there were gaps, we could see them closing within minutes. Furthermore, we see more life and interaction on the street in neighbourhoods that had many cooperative buildings or housing developments. As there is often little infrastructure for meeting places, they are concentrated in a few places. Apart from signs calling on people to drive slowly, we did not observe any activity in the public space.
One Area we were able to Observe more Neighbourhood interaction and the Dwelling outside were several particular “Genossenschaftssiedlungen” where the somewhat private access streets were car free because of the big car park-garages specially designated for residents’ cars and not serving as traffic axis. The Resident blocks at Rautistrasse / Freilagerstrasse are a good example for that. Car access is only allowed for emergency services, goods handling, and exceptional circumstances. These Streets form courtyards that incorporate green space, trees and non-sealed surfaces. When observing the street for some moments, one sees children at play with each other, riding their bicycles and scooters, their parents talking to each other, some old people sitting on the benches, young people meeting in small groups to play Pingpong and People walking their dogs. These residential streets convey a livelihood and public character that is missing from every other street we observed in our walks. 
3.2 Prototypes
We have already examined the dynamics of traffic and urban planning in our research. On the one hand, we were able to observe that insufficient transport connections, but also the displacement from the city centre to the agglomeration, causes a recurring vicious circle of commuting, congestion and lack of parking spaces. Another exciting observation in our research was that many of the cars parked in car parks are not used 95% of the time. (Source)[ab] With these thoughts in mind, we wanted to explore the dynamics of a street. The fact that blue zones are a suboptimal solution for residents who regularly need a car (as there is no security for a space and long search times are included), as well as a solution that promotes traffic. As already described in the methodology chapter[ac], we ventured to develop a tool that was equipped with game dynamics and also provided the different actors in this ecosystem with corresponding capabilities. The core question we wanted to find out was how residents would design a street and whether the number of parking spaces would be more, less or the same.
3.2.1 The Game
In a first Prototype of said tool, we developed a small game to model and examine roles, players politics and interactions of street planning. We used the Calandastrasse as an example street located in Altstetten to draw a game board that could be played on. It was outfitted with a snapping grid system that could be used to place tiles (fig. 777). We created a big variety of these tiles to represent different surfaces, elements and use requirements. To reflect different entities and interests in the street planning discourse, we created role cards that the players should try to embody in their playing behaviour. On each of these cards was a goal, an ability and the number of action points available per round. These points could be spent for different moves in a round. In a first playtest the goal for the players was to cocreate a street with the tiles available. After discussions, arguments about matters, relocating and replacing each other's tiles and many compromises, a somewhat satisfying result was reached. It quickly became apparent that a lot of communication was needed to achieve the single player's goals together, as single players only have limited freedom of action to shape the whole street. 
The rules, which were rigorously laid out for the first time, were not necessary in this setting and were replaced by a looser set of rules in a second version. Other aspects that struck us were the lack of location and the realistic representation of the individual elements. We did not assign a specific place of residence to the individual residents. However, the participants wanted to know very quickly where they live in order to build their own targets in front of the house and, in the best case, to have, for example, the required parking space in front of their own home. The effective size also became a problem in the definition of different walkways, because it was not clear, for example, whether one could still walk past a bench or block the path with it. Another element that led to ambiguities was the insufficient visual differentiation between drivable and non-drivable surfaces, which are particularly important for fire protection regulations. Finally, it has to be said that hardly anyone had a claim to a parking space directly in front of the flat. The other options seemed much more attractive to all participants. The possibility of having a private parking space, which remains free but is more expensive, was welcomed by all. We could also observe the same assumption in later surveys. One aspect that was missing for us personally was that of activity. Since this component has a very strong social as well as democratic side, it is just as important for the design and resilience of a neighbourhood.
3.2.1 The Idea-Café
As already briefly discussed in the research Chapter, our second prototype presented itself as the so called “Idea-Café”. The concept behind it was simple: Setting up a coffee machine, as well as various chairs and tables in a car park and inviting people to coffee in exchange for an idea to improve the neighbourhood. The preparation started with many logistical issues. Where is electricity sourced? How is the coffee machine and furniture transported to the site? How many seats are provided? We were able to solve these problems by choosing a location close to our place of residence. Another 150 metres of cable helped us. The second approach we had to investigate was the interaction with us, but also with the cashing in of ideas. In the beginning, we assumed a capitalist attitude that more elaborate coffees need more ideas to be redeemed, but we had to throw this overboard relatively quickly, because many people also liked to stop just to discuss and didn't want coffee at all. The next step was to design the idea cards on which the ideas could be sketched and described. The description was very loosely formulated and allowed for any format. In addition, we made a display wall on which various information about us, but also about our project, could be seen. This exchange also acted as an exhibitor for the actions’ slogan: “Ein Kafi für dini Idee”.
One attitude we took to heart at the beginning of the organisation is that our actions should always add value for the neighbourhood. We achieved this quite well by creating a meeting point and free coffee. Furthermore, we did not only want to discuss the abstract dynamics of urban planning, but to immediately evoke a proposal with our own ideas that would serve as a basis for the discussion. This personal input of one's own idea worked very well. We could see this in the different discussions we had on the one hand with people who entered an idea and on the other hand with people who just stopped and discussed briefly. The former discussions were often very varied, as the suggestions were also very different. These ranged from an ice field to a Tiny House in a car park and inspired the vision of the participant, so that often several ideas were submitted. The discussions we had with passers-by, however, often revolved around the necessity of parking spaces or the generally bad bicycle traffic in Zurich.
We could observe that there were a lot of ideas, but few of them really knew where to start with the implementation. However, the aspect that we could observe best was that a thought process was started through their own involvement with the topic, which was not necessarily guided by us and thus also enabled a freer approach to the topic. The feedback we received was actually exclusively positive. However, we noticed that our argumentation for the project was not as stringent as we would have needed to communicate our concept effectively. “What will your action develop into?” was a frequently asked question that was difficult to answer for us. Usually we would describe our areas of interest and our planned methodology. Confronting ideas with the public space is always a good “reality check” to make yourself clear again how the topic is framed and whether your concept pitch works out for non-experts. However, the organisation of the whole action was very time-consuming and took us at least a week, as we also had to evaluate and discuss everything.
The next step in this process was a first validation and comparison of different actions in different settings. This also helped us to analyse where there is still room for improvement and on which factors this depends. The first “Idea Café” took place on a beautiful Monday afternoon during the school holidays. The people we encountered most frequently were pensioners or parents who were out with their children. The second iteration of the “Idea Café” took place on a Tuesday afternoon in a cloudy and cold atmosphere. There were hardly any people out and about and the climate was not conducive to sitting outside for any length of time. Other changes we made were the introduction of questions and a board on which ideas could be posted. The aim of this was to try out a first form of time-independent interaction, as in a democratic discussion process not all participants can always take part at the same time. The basic idea of this making visible worked well and triggered a certain curiosity. The questions we had formulated (What do we still need the car for today? And Where can we still find space in Zurich?) were answered many times. However, the wording was very suggestive and even if many answers were good, the opinions went in the same direction and therefore didn't really provide an explanation or serve as a basis for discussion. Another important discussion component is the location and the walk-in audience that we can address over the course of an afternoon, as otherwise we would not reach a critical size to generate an exchange. On the other hand, new participants were schoolchildren who were delighted by the absurdity of the installation on their way to school. Unfortunately, the serving of coffee was not the biggest attraction for this target group. The ideas we received were nevertheless enriching and appealing in their simplicity, as they were easy to implement. The two actions were certainly a good starting point to get a feeling for the needs and dynamics of a neighbourhood. However, there was often a lack of perspective and the prospect of effective change or demand. This was partly due to the timing of our process, but also because we were not yet able to offer many “realistic” implementations, apart from the “Idea Café”. We were also aware that we had not yet built a proper contact point or public platform where interested people could find out about the next action or our vision. The creation of a website and a social media channel was therefore the next concern we tackled.


we began reworking strategy and our visual appearance. As it became more and more evident that thinking in a bigger scope than just in a parking-space was emerging, we repositioned our identity with the “WerkStadt”-name and a more friendly, inviting and less parking-space focussed visual appearance. Going along was a rework of our methodology for ideation and conversation.
In contrast to last time, we did not have as many participants as we had wished for, one key reason probably being the cold temperature and missing sunshine. Although taking place in the same time of day and at the same place, the street was much less frequented, and people were less willing to engage in a longer exchange. This led us to reconsider our strategy for gaining participation. With further actions, we want to advertise for them by means of social media and word-of-mouth information. A more frequent and regular appearance of action on the street is envisioned as well, to get a feel for participation dynamics on the location.


3.2.2 The “Pop-Up” Repair-Workshop
The second Experiment we conducted originated from the “Idea Café”. After much talking about improving the streets, we felt that action was needed. One Saturday, we went out to repair peoples bicycles. For this iteration, we decided to not place the experiment on a parking space, but in proximity to a well-frequented bike route through the city, as none of the close parking spaces had the attributes we felt necessary for the success of our experiment. The only unoccupied parking spaces were flanked with two big lorries that restricted our visibility to passing people, and in close proximity to a driveway that we did not want to block with our expanding action. We brought some usual consumables, two repair stands and a small convolute of Tools. In some distance from our work area, we put up our information board with a description of who we are and what our goals are. When approached by someone with their bike, we offered them a basic check and the necessary repairs. Generally we would not perform all the repairs for them, but guide the participants through our checklist and help them with performing the repairs themselves. We charged them only for the price of the consumables, but most of them insisted on some Tip. Once again, the exchange deal for our work was the filling of a form we prepared (reference image / research chapter) with the goal to get them to reflect on the use of public spaces and gather data on their perceived comfort in said spaces. When passing by, People would usually stop by our infoboard to read it, and then come to us to show their bike or just talk to us. In general the feedback was of positive nature. (... write down some of the feedback) The main rush came after lunchtime and both of us were busy with fixing bikes and talking to people the whole afternoon. In that situation of us being busy and more and more people dropping in, some of the people that had just repaired their bikes started to engage with people that were waiting. In some cases they were able to solve the problem without consulting us. This shows one of the dynamics that we aim to create with our work: not only providing the service itself, but generally a platform where people can connect and help each other that would otherwise probably never have met. Another observation of importance was the arrival of a bigger friend group of ours. After getting their bike fixed, they decided to spend another hour sitting by, playing card games and talking to us. At that moment, The nature of our action went from public to exclusive, as passing people felt the connection of our group and assumed that we were busy with them, not wanting to disturb our more intimate group dynamic. This is something that we need to manage better in future iterations, as it lessens the interactions with people we want to reach with our actions.
3.2.3 Designing “Public” Furniture
A learning from all our observation walks, actions and interactions with people on the street was the need to create a meeting point. Not only in its social form but in a physical form that would invite people to stop, reconsider their urgent transportation behaviour and dwell. Be it only for a moment or the time an interaction with others takes. Being one of the three crucial factors that afford life on a street, it seemed worth investigating through some prototypes. Although a big variation of this public furniture exists and many elements of public or private architecture can be used to rest, dwell and meet, the proximity to streets seems to devalue them or even prohibit their installation. Considering ideas that have been done already, we had several goals for our own prototype: Our furniture should use and transform road infrastructure that has a different purpose. It should invite not only passive interactions but provide flexibility and playfulness in use. It could incorporate data collection about its usage, frequentation and traffic around it. Providing flexibility in its configuration, it can be adapted to different surroundings, activities, and locations. It has nomadic character, it invites movement and migration to a new location and purpose. Through its movement, it explores different streets and their need for a living or meeting space. The first of these pieces of furniture 


3.2.4 Public Infrastructure with Hydroponics
3.2.5 The Mobile Platform (Anhänger)
3.2.6 Aesthetics of Invitation


3.3 Results (incl. user tests if applicable)








4.Conclusion
Working in, around and across the street is a diverse and very complex matter. The many actors involved are a great challenge and so it is difficult to recognise and work with the levers in a system in an urban ecosystem. On the one hand, we were fascinated by the similarities to game mechanics and on the other hand by the almost endless possibilities to act, intervene and discuss. Since a city consists of a multitude of different individuals, it is just as difficult to find a uniform problem as it is to find a uniform solution. We quickly realised that the possibility to act can only happen locally and directly. An approach that is to be applied to a neighbourhood or a city did not seem appropriate in such a situation. It would immediately lead to an exclusion, in which a decision-making group would be created for organisational and time reasons. This also led to the fact that we decided against a project that is to be located in service design and presents a proper solution at the end. We want to show the diversity of ideas and present the system of a street as diverse as it actually is. This happens primarily when people meet and discuss together. Creating this possibility was our main goal in the second part of our bachelor thesis.
The next step was to implement a functioning system and long-lasting documentation. We experimented with different possibilities such as maps, pictures and texts to record the actions that took place. The most important thing we learned from this was that a digital platform automatically leads to exclusion. We also found out that a localisation of all ideas is an important part of the discussion and that the proposals gain momentum with the concretisation. This combination of imagining one's own ideas and thinking about how to implement them was the most motivating aspect we could observe. Being able to implement these ideas, even if only temporarily, became the focus of our work and with our trailer we were able to create a tool that would make this possible. The cooperation with the GZ was a lucky coincidence for us, as it enables the "WerkStadt" to live on even after the bachelor thesis.


4.1 Contribution
“Getting into the field” and “Get your own data” is a common denominator in interaction-design practices. It is a way of getting into touch with different fields in a quick and efficient manner to gain an understanding of a challenge or topic one is confronted with. It is most frequently used when getting into touch with a target group and laying out a concept for a further solution or project one is working on. Especially during our research phase we have encountered a lot of people and were present within an ecosystem that is a neighbourhood and the public space surrounding it. In this phase we gained important knowledge about topics that people were worried about or needs they have mentioned. Whilst having discussions with multiple people from different neighbourhoods in Zurich we realised that these needs and topics that were being discussed often were circling around very specific problems such as a traffic mirror that is missing or small conflicts between different actors involved. We believe that the methods we have used and the knowledge we have gained are very important for all different parties involved and that especially a civil engineering office or other municipal institutions can profit from this approach as with every street they rebuild they encounter new people and thus new challenges and frameworks around which their projects can evolve. Circling back to the points first mentioned in this paragraph, this approach of user studies and cultural probes can be very beneficial for the outcome of such a project.
Considering our process we have dealt with being active and producing knowledge in two ways. One that is the before mentioned way of getting data and using these methods to get an understanding of the dynamics within a street. Another path that we have explored isn’t so much of a methodical nature but more of an active and empowering one. This means that we have prototyped different possibilities of being active within a public space and what their impacts have been. We have used these insights to create a “manual” of how to be active within public space and also to empower residents to use this space in a way that doesn’t make them dependent on municipal institutions. This allows citizens to have an active part in shaping a street not only with their opinion and their vote but also through actions and small interventions. Within this framework we also have designed a way of gathering this information and collecting them into a compilation of different conversions that one can discuss in a “Dingpolitisch” manner. Whilst composing this manual and also testing it out with different people we have also conducted insights of how to frame a project that people are willing to participate in and have fun whilst doing it. This included playful components, a sense of community and helpfulness of other people, but also the logistical challenges such an action poses that have to be as low as possible. Manifesting this into a physical methodology with our bike trailer, we tried to connect the manual to an object that participants can recognise and also allows them to gain trust in  the actions that are being implemented with it. Furthermore the ability to rent the trailer through the GZ allows motivated participants to also be more independent from us and with having the manual open source, even being completely independent from any institution.
4.2 Future Steps
Getting to know the different parties involved and also getting familiar with the different steps involved in public space was a big part of our project. After having tested out many things we have a good knowledge base of what works and what doesn’t. Our next steps would thus include to confine a plan that works from the beginning on whilst also being adaptable to different changes. A big problem we encountered was that we failed to generate some sort of momentum because both we and the people didn’t really know where the project was heading. After having built our trailer we will test out how the different participants react to our manual and also if the joy to do it again will spread. Furthermore we would like to assess the data we collected during these actions and have a meeting with the civil engineering office to also discuss if and how this data can be valuable for them. With that in mind we would also like to test the full scope of our methodologies in a different neighbourhood to see if our assumptions can also be validated under different circumstances. We hope that, after we pass on our trailer to the GZ which is located in Affoltern, we can also hope to have an exchange with the people from the GZ which have a different background in sociocultural animation. With evermore insights gained and maybe also more parts of the project being thoroughly tested, we would like to look at the scalability of our project and what impact it could have in different neighbourhoods. 
5. Source Index
1. 

6. Figure Index


________________
[1] The ideal city, SPACE10, Robert Klanten, Elli Stuhler, 2021


[2] Traffic space Public Space, 


[3] Palaces for the people : how social infrastructure can help fight inequality, polarisation, and the decline of civic life / Eric Klinenberg. 2018


[4] Patrick Rérat (2012) Housing, the Compact City and Sustainable Development: Some Insights From Recent Urban Trends in Switzerland, International Journal of Housing Policy, 12:2, 115-136, DOI: 10.1080/14616718.2012.681570


[5] Self Made City, City of Berlin, 2013


[6] Anti Urban ideologies and Planning in France and Switzerland, Bernard Marchan & Joëlle Salomon Cavin, 2007 
[7] Achtung: Die Schriften, Lucius Burckhardt, Max Frisch, 1955 
[8] Architektur auf gemeinsamem Boden, Universität Luxemburg, 2020
[9] Open data tool Kanton Zürich
[10]https://www.bfs.admin.ch/bfs/de/home/statistiken/kataloge-datenbanken/karten.assetdetail.3262708.html
[11] https://www.immomapper.ch/de/immobilienpreise/ch
[12] From Realpolitik to Dingpolitik or How to make Things public, Bruno Latour, 2004
[13] Play the city, Tan Ekim, 2017
[a]He einch sehr guet aber vlt no chli meh research zu wie lüt hützutags aktiv sind inere stadt und wie das passiert
[b]isch jetzt nid grad s schlagchräftigste bispil
[c]isch echli random no inequetscht. Has gfühl hett doch fasch es eignigs kapitel a la tragedy of the commons verdient
[d]was sind denn die idee vo dem herr bernoulli gsi?
[e]Maybe no bitz meh so chli verzelle inwiefern denn die ört als soziale Treffpunkt fungiert.
[f]With statistics realationable sizes are very important. => maybe even more practical examples
[g]_Als geklärt gekennzeichnet_
[h]_Erneut geöffnet_
[i]Isch vlt no wichtig dass mer roadside und blaui zone spaces vo parkhüser unterscheidet will parkhüser offesichtlich mehrstöckig sind
[j]Rewrite the last section for better "rounding" of the section. does it need to be that extensive?
[k]findi jetz schono e gap zum eifach no ee frag anehenke. VLt no chli meh analyse zu de rechtliche lag vo was mer denn überall dert druf deff abstelle und no chli meh meinigsumfrage wie das wo d daniela eus mal gsiet hett
[l]Finde d herahleitig no chli schwer verständlich aber ha ebe s gfühl wemmer das bispil chli besser dut usfüehre cheggt mer s guet
[m]Mour methodlogien, strollology, interventions, public objects
[n]bitz umstrukturiere, parkkafi is development ine, meh uf ergebnis vo üse frageböge und promenadologie iigah
[o]Framing, Wording
[p]kind of a Buzzword-sentence. Better describe the dynamics?I understand dynamics as interconnected interactions between players, is that right?
[q]maybe not so much
[r]include the question of doing vs managing a bit more / link to field research about the two,...
[s]want to provide a platform?
[t]Yes
[u]goes further than mediate between? how does it go further?
[v]By providing an accessible documentation-platform?
[w]rephrase, content is good, but the sentence seems clumsy
[x]Ja maybe scho aber wieso ii de goals?
[y]Second sentence? Use the remodeled street as proving ground?
[z]still needs more elaboration of our Unique proposition / differentiation to other activism.
[aa]Expand on our research into validation, move the prototype description and findings into 3.1
[ab]add source
[ac]irgendwie andersch,...